doc/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============

Installation can be done in various ways. The simplest form uses pip
or easy_install. Either one will work::

    pip install rsa

Depending on your system you may need to use ``sudo pip`` if you want to install
the library system-wide.

Installation from source is also quite easy. Download the source and
then type::

    python setup.py install


The sources are tracked in our `Git repository`_ at
GitHub. It also hosts the `issue tracker`_.

.. _`Git repository`: https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa.git
.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa/issues


Dependencies
------------

Python-RSA has very few dependencies. As a matter of fact, to use it
you only need Python itself. Loading and saving keys does require an
extra module, though: pyasn1. If you used pip or easy_install like
described above, you should be ready to go.


Development dependencies
------------------------

In order to start developing on Python-RSA you need a bit more. Use
pip to install the development requirements in a virtual environment::

    virtualenv -p /path/to/your-python-version python-rsa-venv
    . python-rsa-venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r python-rsa/requirements.txt


Once these are installed, use Git_ to get a copy of the source::

    git clone https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa.git
    python setup.py develop

.. _Git: https://git-scm.com/

Commit message:

Drop support for Python 2 and 3.4
Some of our development dependencies, like Sphinx, have already dropped
support for Python 2. This makes it harder for this project to update
its dependencies. Since Python 2 only has a few more months to live, I
think it's fine to drop support now.

Python 3.4 has already reached its end-of-life date.

Python-RSA now only supports Python 3.5 and newer. Python 3.5 support is
intended to last until its end-of-life date of 2019-09-13:
https://devguide.python.org/#status-of-python-branches

doc/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============

Installation can be done in various ways. The simplest form uses pip::

    pip install rsa

Depending on your system you may need to use ``sudo pip`` if you want to install
the library system-wide, or use ``pip install --user rsa`` to install the
library in your home directory.

Installation from source is also quite easy. Download the source and
then type::

    python setup.py install


The sources are tracked in our `Git repository`_ at
GitHub. It also hosts the `issue tracker`_.

.. _`Git repository`: https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa.git
.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa/issues


Dependencies
------------

Python-RSA is compatible with Python versions 3.5 and newer. The last
version with Python 2.7 support was Python-RSA 4.0.

Python-RSA has very few dependencies. As a matter of fact, to use it
you only need Python itself. Loading and saving keys does require an
extra module, though: pyasn1. If you used pip or easy_install like
described above, you should be ready to go.


Development dependencies
------------------------

In order to start developing on Python-RSA, use Git_ to get a copy of
the source::

    git clone https://github.com/sybrenstuvel/python-rsa.git

Use pipenv_ to install the development requirements in a virtual environment::

    pipenv install --dev

.. _Git: https://git-scm.com/
.. _pipenv: https://docs.pipenv.org/
